hi my name is Matthew Bryson chief
engineer for pwr performance products
and welcome to pwr swim wind tunnel
where i'm going to show you around our
our facility here at R&D for crim safe
talking tech so the pwr wind tunnel has
been entirely designed and built in
in-house by pw our engineering staff
with some assistance technically outside
by some of the best minds in in in
aerodynamics throughout the world of
motorsport that our customers of ours
helping us to define what it is that we
we wanted to build the tunnel has been
operating for approximately three years
now and the fundamental reason for us
wanting to build the wind tunnel was to
enable us to improve the development
cycle of our own products ensure that we
understood the nature of an operation of
our own products to ensure that what we
build today versus what we build
tomorrow we're constantly on a
development path to build a better cool
the wind tunnel specifically isn't what
a layman might expect a wind tunnel to
be where you're not bringing your car to
the wind tunnel and parking the car in
the wind tunnel and and that test being
done this this tunnel is designed
specifically for the testing of op ed
exchanges and then by heat exchangers I
mean coolers that are fundamentally
oil and air so we're we're cooling water
systems for the likes of engine water
for maybe in hybrid vehicles that could
be battery cooling water systems that
support water air charge coolers we've
got oil systems here separate loops for
engine oil a separate loop for gearbox
oil and we've got a charge air cooling
loop as well where we've got a series of
compressors that supply the compressed
air we've got heating reservoirs so
we're able to simulate the heat
rejection characteristics of whether it
be an S car engine or whether it be a
Formula one engine including of the the
new turbo and hybrid systems all of our
fluid loops here are able to replicate
those conditions such that ourselves and
their customers fully understand how our
product will interact with that with
their systems in the car
the vehicle speed doesn't necessarily
what does not equal the speed at which
the air is passing through the heat
exchanges but we need to replicate the
pressure that is achieved within the
duct when that car is at speed and the
air temperature and the the air pressure
that that those coolers are exposed to
and from that we can very accurately
model and test and validate what what
will actually happen in the car
fundamentally in this tunnel we've got a
series of loops where we're measuring
and controlling the the ambient air
that's being delivered to to the system
through here we've got a section here
where we're monitoring the the charge
air loop we do engine oil we've got a
small water loop when the small water
loop can be used for things like water
to where charge coolers and may be
supporting hybrid vehicles and battery
cooling we've got a main engine water
loop and we've got another small oil
loop that's that's fundamentally 44
gearbox and a gearbox oil or something
of that nature a series of spare outputs
that weekend that we can adapt if we're
looking to do some some additional
measurements but fundamentally we're
able to control all of these loops and
run them simultaneously such that if
there are systems of water oil and air
running within a common side pod or or a
common duct and one cooler might
influence the performance of the other
we're able to run all of those systems
in in tandem on our rig and and very
accurately measure how those girls
perform the utilization of the
thermal-imaging camera allows us to
monitor the flow distribution that we're
achieving inside the cooler in this
particular instance we're measuring a
charge air cooler and we can see that
this particular tank is delivering a
flow that is more prominent towards the
bottom section than it is towards the
top so we know that we can make some
tanking changes here to improve
distribution and an in higher end
product we can actually change the
restriction that is within the
individual tubes so that tanks might
need to be designed a particular way but
if we are able to change the restriction
within individual tubes we can smooth
that flow out either by tanking or bike
or construct
we have teams from from formula 1 and
from Nazca and engineering staff out
here to work with us on our wind tunnel
and developing their product and the
nature of us having a manufacturing
facility alongside of a test facility
means that the process of developing the
very best component can be done in the
shortest amount of time we can be
testing here on a Monday and Tuesday and
develop a whole range of characteristics
for a set of cores and literally within
24-48 hours and having processed that
data we can have produced additional
samples and be testing again so the
route you know the route to development
to being on the car is significantly
shortened with pwr having all of these
facilities in house
the focus of the wind tunnel is not
exclusively about building a heat
exchanger what we do here is work with
the customers who are quite often
working in an ironed automotive and
motorsport applications where not only
are there thermal targets that we need
to meet but there are aerodynamic
targets that we're trying to work with
in terms of how the car processes its
air through the coolers that we build to
ensure that we are developing the
biggest gain to that car in terms of lap
time shut the door on scary
with the one and only cream safe
installed by licensed trim safe
technicians partnered with crime
stoppers up to 15 years warranty if it's
not trim safe it's not trim safe only at
licensed dealers visit cream safe calm
day you